All right. We've covered a tone of information and congratulations on getting this far.
In this video, we'll walk through the blockchain transaction lifecycle.
This lifecycle follows the journey of a single transaction as it
works its way through each stage in the process towards joining the blockchain.
This will bring everything together that we've learned so far and
establish a framework that we can use to understand the entire process.
Keep in mind everything that you've learned throughout the previous lessons,
because this lifecycle spans all of it.
This will hopefully provide some clarity on how all the pieces fit together.
Here's what the lifecycle looks like between two BitCoin users, Joe and Brandy.
In this example, Joe wants to send one Bitcoin to Brandy.
First, Joe gets Brady's wallet address.
Using this information, he creates a new transaction for one Bitcoin
from his wallet and includes a transaction fee of 0.003 Bitcoins.
Next, he verifies his information and sends the transaction.
His wallet starts the transaction signing algorithm
which signs his transaction using his private key.
The transaction is now broadcasted to the memory pool within the network.
This transaction is eventually accepted by the miners.
These miners group this transaction into a block,
find the proof of work and assign this block a hash value.
This block is now placed onto the blockchain.
As this block gains confirmations,
it is accepted as a valid transaction in the network.
Once the transaction is accepted,
Brandy finally gets her Bitcoin.
If you understood most of all of that,
you've come in an enormous way towards understanding the blockchain.
This concise summary obviously doesn't include all the details,
but acts as a quick story that you can use to branch
off into more of the details we discussed through the lesson.
Congratulations again on getting this far.
We'll definitely be using all of this as we dive
deeper into each of these concepts later on.